# Machine Learning Methods and their use cases
Machine learning enables machines to learn from past experiences, whether from existing data or by interacting with their environment
#Supervised Learning
Supervised learning is a machine learning training method in which a model is trained on a labeled data set to make predictions on new data.
A label is a class or category assigned to a data point in supervised learning. Labels can be derived from data but are often applied by human labelers or annotators.
Labeled data is raw data that is assigned labels to add context or meaning so that it can be used to train machine learning models. For example, numeric values might be labeled as zip codes or ages to provide context for model inputs and outputs.
A feature is a property, variable, or characteristic of an item within a data set, such as a column in a spreadsheet. In some cases, features are engineered as combinations of other features in the data set.
Types of supervised learning

Classification predicts which discrete category or class an input belongs to. Classifications can be binary, with two classes of data, or multiclass, with more than two categories. When you think of classification, think of sorting everyday items. Is this email spam or not? Is this a photo of an apple or an orange? Each of these questions seeks to classify inputs into distinct categories.

•
In contrast, regression predicts a continuous value rather than sorting into a category. For example, imagine a model that predicts the price of a house based on its features, such as size, location, and number of bedrooms. This prediction is a regression prediction because the output, the price, is a continuous number, not a discrete class.

#Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning is a machine learning training method in which a model is not provided with labeled data and must find patterns or structure in the data on its own. It involves training a model on unlabeled data.

#Semi Supervised Learning
Semi-supervised learning is a machine learning training method that combines supervised and unsupervised learning, using both labeled and unlabeled data for training.
Semi-supervised learning also plays a critical role in training and refining large language models (LLMs) such as IBM Granite.
Semi-supervised learning algorithms can improve the performance of models trained on limited labeled data by using the unlabeled data to learn the underlying structure of the data distribution.
A drawback of semi-supervised learning is the complexity of designing effective models and algorithms that seamlessly integrate labeled and unlabeled data.

#Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning resembles supervised learning but is more advanced.
Reinforcement learning is a machine learning training method in which an agent learns to make sequential decisions in an environment to maximize a reward signal. An agent is an algorithm or model that interacts with an environment to learn optimal actions or decisions to achieve a specific goal.



Item for comparison

Supervised learning

Unsupervised learning

Reinforcement learning

Labeled data

Yes

No

No

Outcome

Known

Unknown

Usually unknown

Tasks

Prediction

Clustering, association, dimension reduction

Decision making, strategizing

Training process

Learn from labels

Learn from patterns

Learn from rewards

Applications

Image recognition, temperature, forecasting, and more

Customer segmentation, anomaly detection, and more

Game playing, robotics, self-driving cars, stock trading, and more


Supervised learning is commonly used to make predictions.

•
Unsupervised learning is used for discovering patterns or reducing the number of features in data.

•
Reinforcement learning is used for decision making in dynamic environments.




#Machine Learning Algorithms
supervised algorithms: linear regression, logistic regression, and decision trees.

#Linear Regression
Linear regression is a supervised learning algorithm that uses a line to represent the linear background trend of the data.
linear regression takes data points with known inputs and target values and determines the best-fitting line, known as the regression line.
Linear regression is primarily used for predictive modeling and analyzing the impact of input variables on the target variable. 

